You’ve noticed an opportunity
that’ll help your agency,
but you need to integrate system X with system Y.
It’s an unusual project and no-one in your agency
has the know-how to advise you…
you’re not even sure if it is possible!
You should approach your usual ICT or Digital Panels,
but keep in mind, depending on your need,
you might miss out on unknown,
cheaper or better ways to reach your outcomes.
Maybe there are sellers you don't know about
who have new technologies
or ideas to help solve your problem.
You need to scan what’s out there
by conducting early market research.
This can be via existing panels
or you could cast a wider net
to capture those new sellers
and emerging technologies.
Early market research means
you can talk to sellers on and off panels
to discover possible options for your problem.
Early market research is also
sometimes known as market sounding.
It’s a way of discovering what
and who are out there in the ICT industry
that might help you achieve
your project outcomes.
You’re not making any commitment to work
with particular sellers at this stage,
you’re just sounding things out.
Even if you don’t know what the solution is yet,
early market research means you…
Get a better understanding of industry trends.
Gain a broader and deeper view
of the capability of industry
Invite innovative solutions to your problems
It might sound like a lot of effort…
It might even sound risky…
But don't worry.
We have resources and tips to help you
with each step of your early market research.
So, how can we help?
We’ve developed a resource
through the sticky
(and not so sticky) parts of early market research,
from the planning stages
to the actual research,
with probity in mind along the way.
Probity is about integrity,
honesty and ethical behaviour.
A lot of people may worry that
in early market research
sellers may argue that they were
not treated equitably or without bias.
You might also worry about sellers
thinking you’re offering them work,
or that they may hassle you for work.
But, it isn’t difficult to mitigate these concerns.
With the right templates and processes,
you can do your early market
research with confidence
that you’re following the right approach,
in-line with government rules.
You’ll also have a smoother, shorter
or more streamlined procurement process,
as more effort earlier on,
will make it easier later.
Much of this is about openness, transparency,
and documenting your processes,
and we’ve got a lot of info, advice
and templates to get you started.
Don’t let your fears or worries
about early market research
stop you from finding out what industry is up to,
and how new technologies or solutions
can help support your outcomes.
So, ready to get started?